Main Ingredients:
1)flour
2)oil
Ingredients
1)Maida - 4 cups (plain flour or all purpose flour)
2)Salt - 1 tsp
3)Sugar - 1 tsp
4)Oil - 1/3 cup to 1/2 cup, approx
5)Water as required
Method
1)In a bowl, add maida, salt and sugar and mix well. Slowly add water and make a soft dough. Add a tbsp of oil and mix into the dough. Cover the dough with a lid and allow to rest for at least 2 to 3 hours.
2)Grease your work surface and your hands with oil and pinch dough to make smooth round tennis sized balls. Place the balls on the greased work surface and grease the balls with oil.
3)Take each ball and roll it like a thick roti (approx 4"-5") in diameter using a rolling pin and place the rolled out rotis on the greased work surface. Place them each next to each other. Grease the thick rotis well. Allow to rest for 10 mts.
4)Take a rolled out thick roti and spread it out thin using a rolling pin or using your palms and fingers to stretch out into a thin sheet. The key is to spread it out super thin and as large as you can. Keep smearing oil as your spread the sheet. The shape is really not important. Even if there are a couple of tears, it is completely fine.
5)Now using the fingers, slowly lift up one end of the sheet and make pleats moving towards the other end.
6)Once its pleated hold one end of the long strip and roll it towards the other end to create a rosette and tuck the end under the rosette. Prepare with the rest of other thick rotis and keep the rosettes greased at all times. Allow to rest for 10 mts.
7)On the greased work surface, place each rosette and roll into a thick parotta, smearing oil as your roll out. Ensure the parottas are well greased.
8)Heat a tawa on high flame. Once the tawa heats up, place the thick parotta on the tawa and cook on both sides till golden brown on medium high flame. Drizzle oil as your roast them on the hot tawa.
9)Prepare parottas with rest of the rosettes in a similar fashion. Now take each parotta, place on the work surface and using both your hands, crush them together similar to clapping action. This helps to open up the layers of the parotta.
10)Repeat this action with all the roasted parottas. Serve parotta with vegetable salna or chicken salna.
Tips
1)At every stage, the shaped out dough - tennis sized balls/rolled out thick rotis/thin sheets/rosettes/rolled out parottas should be well greased at all times.
2)Allow to rest for at least 10 mts at each stage of the parotta making process.
3)Crushing the hot off the stove roasted parotta is essential step that is not to be missed.
